# Debugging

Although slowing down tests can give a better impression of what is going on, we often would like to be able to zoom in to specific parts of the tests, especially if those parts fail.

## Exercise: Adding a test runner

A test runner is a tool that is able to run your tests and provide you with various options. For example, you can specify which tests you want to run, whether you want to run them in parallel. In addition, it provides you annotations, such as `@BeforeAll` and `@AfterAll` that can be useful to setup and cleanup test data.
Playwright works with the JUnit and TestNG test runner.

In this exercise you will add the TestNG test runner.

TODO: @James: adding a test runner to the pom.xml and describe the steps to do it here.

## Exercise: Starting the Playwright inspector

Try to run all tests in debug mode with the following command:

```bash
PWDEBUG=1 PLAYWRIGHT_JAVA_SRC="./src/main/java" mvn compile exec:java -D exec.mainClass="org.tests.ExampleTest"
```

You will see an additional window, which is the Playwright inspector. In this window, the code of `ExampleTest.java` is shown. The test will halt at the start.
Click on the green resume button or press F8 in the Playwright inspector to resume the test.

You should see the homepage of Playwright for a brief moment, before the test terminates.

## Exercise: Adding a breakpoint

To increase control of our debugging process, you will add a breakpoint. Breakpoints are used to tell a program to halt execution on the point where you placed the breakpoint.

1. Append this code to the end of the `main` method in your `ExampleTest.java` file:
   ```java
   page.pause();
   page.getByText("Getting Started").click();
   ```
2. Run your test in debug mode (see the previous exercise).
3. Click on the resume button.

What do you notice? In what scenarios could this be useful?


## Exercise: Live editing locators

When you are in the last step of the previous exercise do the following:

1. Click on the `Locator` tab in the bottom of the Playwright inspector.
2. Type in the following: `getByText('Playwright')`

What do you notice? Scroll down the page and see what is happening.

Click around a bit more in the Playwright inspector. Explore the `Pick locator` and `Log`.
